Student Name: Rishaan Pillai(HS/45317)
Stage: Early Stage 1
Educator: Parents(Priya & Ranjit)
Date: 27 May 2024

Overview
Rishaan has participated in various Gurukul(Home-education) based activities which covers the outcomes in the KLA as outlined by NESA. Reports based on KLA is underlined below.

History Report
------------------

HTe-1
1** communicates stories of their own family heritage and the heritage of others

a) Understanding Family Heritage

trip to India(Land I) with families,
Skill: Rishaan understands and can describe their own family heritage.
Evidence: Rishaan discusses family traditions, celebrations, and stories passed down from family members.
Example: Rishaan shares stories(verbal) about family holidays and cultural practices, such as celebrating a traditional festival(Diwali) or family reunions.
Status: Working at expected level.

b) Communicating Personal Stories

Skill: Rishaan communicates personal stories related to their family heritage.
Evidence: Rishaan tells stories about their family, including significant events and memorable experiences.
Example: Rishaan talks about a special family trip(Boathouse trip) or a significant event like a cousine brother's birthday celebration.
Status: Working at expected level.

c) Understanding Others' Heritage

Skill: Rishaan learns about the heritage of others.
Evidence: Rishaan listens to stories from peers and adults about their family traditions and cultural practices.
Example: Rishaan asks questions about a friend's(Kishor family) family traditions during cultural gettogether.
Status: Working at expected level.

d) Comparing and Contrasting Heritage

Skill: Rishaan compares and contrasts their own family heritage with that of others.
Evidence: Rishaan identifies similarities and differences between their family traditions and those of others.
Example: Rishaan notices that both their family and a friend's family celebrate holidays(MDU vs TVM tradition), but with different foods and activities.
Status: Working at expected level.

HTe-2
2** demonstrates developing skills of historical inquiry and communication.

Achievements

1) Asking Historical Questions

How airplanes/fighter planes evolved, how people travelled before and now/what was used as fighter planes before jet planes?
Skill: Rishaan asks questions about the past and historical planes.
Evidence: Rishaan shows curiosity by asking questions about flying experience of people now and before and evolution of airplanes.
Example: Rishaan asks question like "What was used before the jet engines?" or "How did people started flying?"
Status: Working at expected level.

2) Gathering Information

looks at various online study material and asks how fast locomotives have become
Looks at various online study material and asks how the flying became possible.
Skill: Rishaan gathers information from various sources.
Evidence: Rishaan collects information by watching online materials like moziac 3D app, looking at photos/videos, talking to us.
Example: Rishaan watches Mozaic 3D app to get detailed information of planes.
Status: Working at expected level.

3) Understanding Timelines

Skill: Rishaan understands and creates simple timelines.
Evidence: Rishaan arranges planes in chronological order based on timelines 
Example: Rishaan creates a timeline of fighterjets and planes based on their technological advancement and make.
Status: Working at expected level.

4) Making Connections

propeller engines vs jet engines vs rocket propelled engine and how it relates to speed(Mach).  
Skill: Rishaan makes connections between past and present.
Evidence: Rishaan relates history of planes and current airplanes videos to their own flying experience(domestic/international flight).
Example: Rishaan while travelling to India is excited to show number of jets in the passenger plane, its aerelons and how compares other plane in airport.
Status: Working at expected level.

5) Communicating Findings

Excited to verbally describe on how speed has increased 
Skill: Rishaan communicates findings about retro planes vs newer jet planes
Evidence: Rishaan shares information orally as well as game playing with model fighter jets.
Example: Rishaan using verbal and technical terms explains how model F35 and model F22 differs - Vertical Takeoff and Landing, Stealth, jet engines 
Status: Working at expected level.
